1. Ther Innov Regul Sci. 2025 Sep;59(5)1148-1159. doi 10.1007s43441-025-00798-8. 
Epub 2025 Jun 14.

Semantic Search of FDA Guidance Documents Using Generative AI.

Proestel S(1), Jeng LJB(2), Smith C(1), Deady M(3), Amer O(3), Ahmed M(3), 
Rodgers S(3).

Author information
(1)Division of Biomedical Informatics, Research, and Biomarker Development, 
Office of Drug Evaluation Sciences, Office of New Drugs, Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research, FDA, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD, 
20993, USA.
(2)Division of Biomedical Informatics, Research, and Biomarker Development, 
Office of Drug Evaluation Sciences, Office of New Drugs, Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research, FDA, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD, 
20993, USA. linda.jeng@fda.hhs.gov.
(3)International Business Machines (IBM), Washington D.C, USA.

INTRODUCTION Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to 
transform and accelerate how information is accessed during the regulation of 
human drug and biologic products.
OBJECTIVES Determine whether a generative AI-supported application with 
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) architecture can be used to correctly 
answer questions about the information contained in FDA guidance documents.
METHODS Five large language models (LLMs) Flan-UL2, GPT-3.5 Turbo, GPT-4 
Turbo, Granite, and Llama 2, were evaluated in conjunction with the RAG 
application Golden Retriever to assess their ability to answer questions about 
the information contained in clinically oriented FDA guidance documents. Models 
were configured to precise mode with a low temperature parameter setting to 
generate precise, non-creative answers, ensuring reliable clinical regulatory 
review guidance for users.
RESULTS During preliminary testing, GPT-4 Turbo was the highest performing LLM. 
It was therefore selected for additional evaluation where it generated a correct 
response with additional helpful information 33.9% of the time, a correct 
response 35.7% of the time, a response with some of the required correct 
information 17.0% of the time, and a response with any incorrect information 
13.4% of the time. The RAG application was able to cite the correct source 
document 89.2% of the time.
CONCLUSION The ability of the generative AI application to identify the correct 
guidance document and answer questions could significantly reduce the time in 
finding the correct answer for questions about FDA guidance documents. However, 
as the information in FDA guidance documents may be relied on by sponsors and 
FDA staff to guide important drug development decisions, the use of incorrect 
information could have a significantly negative impact on the drug development 
process. Based on our results, the correct citation documents can be used to 
reduce the time in finding the correct document that contains the information, 
but further research into the refinement of generative AI will likely be 
required before this tool can be relied on to answer questions about information 
contained in FDA guidance documents. Rephrasing questions by including 
additional context information, reconfiguring the embedding and chunking 
parameters, and other prompt engineering techniques may improve the rate of 
fully correct and complete responses.

© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI 10.1007s43441-025-00798-8
PMCID PMC12446095
PMID 40517195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement Declarations. Conflicts of interest Sarah 
Rodgers, Omar Amer, Matthew Deady, and Mohamed Ahmed were employees of IBM at 
the time of this work, and this company also created the RAG application Golden 
Retriever that was used during this research. Disclosures The views expressed 
in this report are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the 
opinions of their institutions or the official policy of the Food and Drug 
Administration. No official support or endorsement by the FDA is intended or 
should be inferred.